Akash | ECH: And mercy.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Hello.
Akash | ECH: I'm helping with the stream today, so please let me know whenever you are ready.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Okay, thank you.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Hello.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Hey, Mercy.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Thank you for joining us. I think we should just wait a little… a little while, but I'm trying to tag, some people on the chat.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Sounds good, thank you.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Hey, Kira.
keri: Hello!
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: So I don't know, is it okay for us to start now, or we should wait, a little bit more?
keri: I was hoping to have some client devs. Come.
keri: We have an EF internal meeting that conflicts, and I don't know… so I don't know if Felix is gonna go to that, or…
keri: Here, what, I don't have the agenda pulled up. What's the first, item?
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Okay, but what do you suggest?
keri: Well, I was gonna say, if we don't need client devs for the first item, let's get started. But if we do, maybe we should give it a couple more minutes.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Yeah, for the first item on the agenda, we need, a client of.
keri: He was actually raised by one of them, so…
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: I'm not sure if he's going to be here or not.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Gladi dug him.
keri: Let's give it maybe one more minute, and we can go from there.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Okay, thank you.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Okay, I think we can start. Akash, you can start recording.
Akash | ECH: Yeah, we are live.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Okay so good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to RFPC Standard Call 15. Today's date being October 27th, 2025.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Currently, we have 3 things on our agenda, and whatever the, again, we… we want to discuss that is not yet on the agenda.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: The first thing will be handling of, the error handling for a block not found, which was raised by Mark.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Which, I'm not sure he's here, but do we have any impute on that? I shared a link to the issue.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: on our chat.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: So I'm not sure if we have anything, if…
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: will have any contribution in respect to this, but Mark is not here to show more light on this, so I'm not…
Felix (Geth): Hey, sorry, so I think it might help if we…
Felix (Geth): discuss it, in a bit more detail. So this is about, specific tests, right?
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Yes.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, so specifically, it's about the get lock receipts.
Felix (Geth): Yeah.
Felix (Geth): So… Seems that…
Felix (Geth): Can we go about the… what is the specific question? So in the… the pull request just changes BISU to return null instead of…
Felix (Geth): Returning an error.
Felix (Geth): So I guess the question is…
Felix (Geth): If that is a valid behavior, or is it… should we change something, or…
keri: I think the… it looks to me, like, from the pull request, that the problem is that, fixing this, like, get blocked receipts
keri: 5 tests break the simulate V1.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: I'm not sure about the details about it, but I… from the, the pull request, it was… they mentioned that it's… there is an inconsistency in error handling behavior, like, the expectation, so what is… the output is not what is expected. The entire details is what I'm not sure about, because I've not, like, looked into it myself.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: But… If anyone has an idea, or…
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Can help us understand this much more better, or a better way to go about this than the floor is there.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, so the way I see it is that, basically, they… they… they are changing…
Felix (Geth): it to fix the tests, but somehow it…
Felix (Geth): Yeah, I mean…
Felix (Geth): I don't really see why they're not… why they are not… so it breaks the test ETH SimulateV1 empty with block num set plus 1, or something like that, because ETSimulate V1 seems to have the different handling. So I don't really understand. I mean, it just means they have to implement it different for the eSimulate.
Felix (Geth): I mean, here he's saying that they have this abstract class that is used by several RPCs, so yeah, if they…
Felix (Geth): If they change it in this abstract class, it will affect, but this just sounds like a BSU problem to me.
Felix (Geth): Like, yeah, I mean, they have to fix it, but it's… It's not…
Felix (Geth): I mean, ultimately, the defined behavior in the spec is that if the block is requested, but the block is not found, then it's supposed to return null. And the not found is not an error condition.
Felix (Geth): That's just how we always have defined it in the specification, so… and it's how the other methods handle it as well.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: And just for clarity, does that mean that…
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: Okay, there's an expectation that a block should be found, and it's not found, and then it throws an error? Or is it just, like.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: Yeah.
Felix (Geth): I mean, there's a difference between the block not existing and there being an error accessing the database, for example. So if there's an error while trying to load the block from the database, then that is an error.
Felix (Geth): But just… the basic idea behind returning null was always that
Felix (Geth): When you're trying to access, for example, a block number that's higher than the current one, shouldn't necessarily be an error, because you just cannot know if this block is, like, existing or not.
Felix (Geth): And, I mean, it will exist in the future, so it's a bit of a different kind of error from…
Felix (Geth): That was always the whole idea behind this, basically, that you…
Felix (Geth): you… when we can tell you're trying to do something impossible, we will tell you with an error. But if we can't, then…
Felix (Geth): We shouldn't define it as an error, per se.
Felix (Geth): So it's more like that. Or, if we know it doesn't exist, then it's also not an error, right? Like, that's the other thing. For example, there's a bit of a thing, like, we have the same behavior, for example, when you're trying to access a transaction by its hash. So…
Felix (Geth): If… if the transaction doesn't exist, we return null.
Felix (Geth): But… Yeah, it's just… that's just how we always had it in this API.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Okay, so, according to what he said, he said,
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: It returns… the base rule returns an error, but it's… this, but the test is expecting a success response with no result.
Felix (Geth): Yes, exactly. So when it's not found, then it's supposed to return null as the result, yes.
Felix (Geth): So, we can check it, actually, in Hive. So, we… I see they are failing quite a few tests. But, for example,
Felix (Geth): Let me try to see. So they have this get block receipts not found. Yeah, so they return error code minus 32,000 for this case.
Felix (Geth): And I guess it's…
Felix (Geth): Do they have it in another case? I'm checking the test for BISO right now to see which ones.
Felix (Geth): No.
Felix (Geth): No, it's only this one. I mean, it's… it's basically as he was writing in the PR description, it will fix 3 hive tests or something, but not more of them.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, just, like, get block receipts empty, future, or not found.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, I'm less sure about this empty test, what this is even about.
Felix (Geth): Excuse me.
Felix (Geth): So, okay. So in this getBlockReceiptsEmpty test, it accesses get blockReceipts with the hash value that is all zeros. So the whole idea is that basically it's using an invalid block hash that we know doesn't exist.
Felix (Geth): Yo.
Felix (Geth): Notably, they do return null already for, for example, get blocked by number or get blocked by hash.
Felix (Geth): And they also… return null for the get transaction by hash when it's not found.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Sorry, I'm not quite sure if I understand this, so…
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Are we saying that it's best suit problem, or the specs and the hive test are inconsistent in terms of handling errors and what is expected?
Felix (Geth): So I think this is a Bisu problem, because that's what I think, because the Bisu itself is also a bit inconsistent. The spec is pretty clear, and all the other clients adhere to it in this case. So it's just that Bisu doesn't.
Felix (Geth): And in fixing this, they seem to be creating some issue with the eSimulate, but this also I would regard as, like, a Bisu issue.
Felix (Geth): that they… basically, fixing it on their side seems to have some effect on the eSimulate V1, but then I guess they just have to fix that one as well.
Felix (Geth): I have no idea what he wanted to discuss about it. I think maybe he wanted to bring up, like, changing simulate?
Felix (Geth): V1 to have the similar behavior or something like that? I don't know.
keri: So it looks like, to me, that the, the simulate
keri: Like, if you look at eSimulate empty with block numset, Plus one.
keri: It's a future block, and it's throwing an error.
keri: a block not found error. Like, should that return null?
keri: Or should that throw an error? Is it… are you putting that into, like, the impossible bucket?
keri: Like, this is impossible because it's in the future.
Felix (Geth): I mean, you could say…
Felix (Geth): I mean, this is weird. I mean, this is the same question, would, for example, apply for the ETH call, right? And I think we're missing a test there, so we would have to create a test that
Felix (Geth): runs ETHC call with a future block, and we have to decide about the behavior of this.
Felix (Geth): The whole idea with returning null is that it's supposed to return null when…
Felix (Geth): the item which you are seeking is not found. So it's like, when you do get blocked by number with a future number, then
Felix (Geth): And the block doesn't exist in the node, it should return null.
Felix (Geth): But if you're trying to execute an ETH call on a block that doesn't exist, probably that should be an error.
Felix (Geth): Do you understand the distinction between these two cases, or is it weird, or…
Felix (Geth): I don't know.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: So, to recap from the outside, And saying you're…
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: Saying, like, okay, if it's a normal, like, everything is well-formed.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: And you don't find this block, and you, like, even if it's in the future, then that should return null. But if for some reason
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: It's like… I don't know, a malformed block number?
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: It should return an error.
Felix (Geth): Yes.
Felix (Geth): But also, it's, it's like…
Felix (Geth): is a bit like the return null is a bit like the error 404 in HTTP. It's like, if you… you wouldn't… you'd only give the error 404 in HTTP
Felix (Geth): if the exact resource which is being requested doesn't exist. But if there's a problem, like, if there is an internal problem accessing the resource, like a problem in the server or something, then it's not gonna return 404. It's going to return something else.
Felix (Geth): like, some other error. So, in some ways, this return null thing is a bit like returning the 404 in HTTP. So, yeah, I mean, in the future, we could define an error code that is specifically about, like, this condition, that it's not found.
Felix (Geth): The thing you were looking for is not found.
Felix (Geth): But right now, we don't have this defined error code at all, so we are… and we have been using this return null convention since the beginning of the API.
Felix (Geth): So, I feel like… I mean, yeah, we can change it in the future, maybe.
Łukasz Rozmej: Don't we have something…
Łukasz Rozmej: Don't have done that for, like, when we're…
Łukasz Rozmej: block externally, like, we've not found.
Łukasz Rozmej: microphone fault.
Łukasz Rozmej: I'm not sure, because not…
Felix (Geth): I'm sorry, Wukai.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Got some trouble here.
Felix (Geth): understanding you.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Is it just me, or I can't hear him?
Felix (Geth): I couldn't understand him either.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Okay, I think we just wait for him to join or fix his mic. Felixar, you were saying something before you got caught up.
Felix (Geth): No, not really. It's okay.
Felix (Geth): I just tried to explain again, like, this difference between the… I think this could be one action item for this. Basically, we need to create a test that tries each call with some future block or something.
Felix (Geth): I think that's… that's possible. We don't have that now, I think. Let me see.
Łukasz Rozmej: Can you hear me now, guys?
keri: Yeah, that's better.
Łukasz Rozmej: Okay, my point was, I think we have something like, something similar to resource not found, which we use for…
Łukasz Rozmej: For example, So there is an error code that could be used here.
Łukasz Rozmej: If I'm not mistaken. But I'm not at the computer at the moment, so not entirely sure.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, I mean, we don't really… at the moment, there are no really defined error codes. I mean, we will be discussing the error code proposal later. We have some other error codes, but we don't have a general error code for not found.
Felix (Geth): It doesn't exist so far. Yeah, it would have to be added, and then we would have to define it, and for…
Felix (Geth): Check… change all the servers, and change the spec, and change the tests, and… so we don't have that now.
Felix (Geth): Basically, now, right now, for most
Felix (Geth): methods which can return a result. We have this convention that their result is either null, or it is
Felix (Geth): An object, or something like that.
Felix (Geth): I mean, I don't find it pretty either with the null, I have to say, like, I wrote the Go RPC client for the API, and it's kind of annoying, you have to pay attention to this null thing all the time, but I guess it is what it is now, so… yeah.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Okay, so, I don't know… Oh. Sorry, go on.
Łukasz Rozmej: I have actually two different topics, Felic, that I wanted to ask you.
Łukasz Rozmej: One is the, reverted error code. We changed it to free recently, right?
Łukasz Rozmej: But I think the ETH Simulate tests weren't updated, and they still are using the old revert code, error code.
Felix (Geth): Yes, yes, yes. We would, we can discuss it, yeah, but, this… this update is in progress. Yes, they will be updated, but we have to… if we all agree on this call that this change should be made to ETH Simulate.
Felix (Geth): we can definitely make this change. We have a pull request for it, go Ethereum, we can regenerate the test with a different error. It's… it's all there, but we have to agree it.
Felix (Geth): Today.
Łukasz Rozmej: Well, we merged the spec, right? So I think the reverted error code should be consistent between different calls.
Felix (Geth): yes, that's true.
Felix (Geth): However, I'm not sure if we really did change it in also the… Simulate.
Łukasz Rozmej: Well, you didn't, definitely.
Felix (Geth): Yeah.
Felix (Geth): At the moment, I don't see that… so we did not change the spec for eTsimulate to have this error code defined. It is something we can do. I mean, yeah, we can change it to the error code 3 as well. I have no problem with that. I really just wanted to say that we have to,
Felix (Geth): we… we have to agree at first. I mean, I agree with it, yeah, let's go, but…
Łukasz Rozmej: No, it's a mess. If we didn't.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, it's inconsistent, I agree with that too. Yeah, yeah, it is inconsistent right now, yes. Definitely.
Felix (Geth): It's because this proposal with error code 3 and the proposal for eSimulate happened in the same time, so yeah, it's kind of…
Felix (Geth): And on a long time scale. But how about this? Maybe we should follow the agenda first, and then… because at the end of the agenda is not very long, so we can just…
Łukasz Rozmej: Go ahead.
Felix (Geth): Agenda, maybe bring this up again, yeah.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Okay, that would be great. Kiri, I think you're next on the agenda about, execution API versioning.
keri: Yeah, so this actually sort of segues into what I've been thinking about a lot, which is that we should
keri: version execution APIs, so that, clients aren't trying to hit, like, a moving target, and so…
keri: I mean, I think in an ideal world, we'd get
keri: all the, like, ETH SimulateB1 tests passing before we, like, tag execution APIs.
keri: But I think in lieu of that, I think we can kind of, like, tag it. I'd like…
keri: I… I'm… prefer SEMBER, or semantic versioning,
keri: And so, I think we can tag execution APIs either in, like, a beta right now, or just tag it with something, and have Hive run those tests, and then,
keri: if we're doing, like, bug fixes, or, like, things like the youth simulate error codes, I think those can kind of fall into, like, bug fixes, and then we can have Hive pick those up, but then next time we make, like, a big breaking change, like.
keri: Eat Simulate, for example, adding that, we can kind of do it
keri: All at once, and warn people, and tell them that, like, you know, something's gonna break.
keri: But wanted to get a feel for, like.
keri: What people's thoughts were on that, or…
keri: If that was a bad idea.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: I'm a fan of it.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: I like the idea of, having some very…
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: And then I would say, probably just maybe put a versioning.md, just so people know the rules around, like, what is, like, a version bump and what's not, like, what's…
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: Each of the patch for patch, minor, and major.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: What those will mean.
keri: Cool. Yeah, I think that makes sense.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Yeah, I… I think it's absolutely a good idea, and also it will help us with error codes, so that we can easily… clients can easily adapt to it in terms of adaptation, so…
keri: Well, I'll try and get that implemented before next meeting.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Okay, but do you… do we have any plans on it already on how we're going to go about it? More like an MD file to this, or…
keri: I mean, I think we just need to do it,
keri: So, I think the steps are… the file,
keri: Tag it as it is, and we can kind of address
keri: you know, things that come in, issues and PRs that come in, and decide that they're bug fixes, or,
keri: Or features, or braking changes, and then, yeah, yeah, have a changelog, and…
keri: Tag it, and then have Hive pick it up.
keri: I have a local PR to have Hive pick up a certain tag, so I can… I think it'll be pretty quick.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Okay, thank you, that would be great.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: So, next on the agenda would be the three PRs,
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: I think this has to do with you, Kerry, because you have the emerging rights.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Subscription API.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: if you could help us look at the PR, and if there's review, or anything else that needs to be done, then that would be fine. Or further discussions also on it.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, one second, let me just, see if either of us can share the screen.
Felix (Geth): Let me see where… where we got that.
Felix (Geth): So, one sec…
Felix (Geth): Yeah.
Felix (Geth): Okay.
Felix (Geth): Can you guys see it?
keri: Yep.
Felix (Geth): Yes.
Felix (Geth): So, I thought we would try this, because we have the, we have this thing with the pull request triage in GoEthereum as well, and it's been pretty useful, so I thought maybe in the future, if…
Felix (Geth): you know, if we would tag some of the pull requests here, and then just look at them. I tagged these more as an example, because I feel we should discuss them.
Felix (Geth): And they seem to be, unlike the other ones, for example, the fossil spec's huge thing. We're not going to review that today, and it's, like, related to some future protocol feature. But, for example, this one is very small.
Felix (Geth): So, it's something we can easily discuss on this call, I feel, because we just have to make a quick decision about it.
Felix (Geth): And, this pull request…
Felix (Geth): is about adding in the spec an option that has existed for a while, which is that in get logs.
Felix (Geth): there are now two options. So, the current… in the spec currently, it only allows…
Felix (Geth): specifying a block range and a filter. So the block range is defined by from block and to block, and then you have the optional
Felix (Geth): addresses…
Felix (Geth): and the topics. And the topics, they are sort of, like, defined… they… the address and the topics, they define a kind of filter that has to be matched by the logs. So.
Felix (Geth): This PR is about adding another option, which is the block hash. So, when this is specified, instead of giving
Felix (Geth): instead of specifying a range of two numbers, you can query the logs of a specific block which is identified by the hash. It is a useful,
Felix (Geth): It is a useful thing for some clients to be able to access just the logs of a specific block, and also to be able to filter them.
Felix (Geth): Yeah.
Felix (Geth): I initially thought we have to,
Felix (Geth): We would have to, you know, agree on this, but actually, turns out that… this…
Felix (Geth): EIP was proposed in 2017, And… It is final, so…
Felix (Geth): I guess this is official, and we could just merge the PR. However, this is not supported by NetherMind at the moment.
Felix (Geth): So, yeah.
Łukasz Rozmej: Yeah, sure, we can add support, it's not a big deal. One question, is there any, what's the behavior when the block is non-canonical, because we don't have blocks?
Łukasz Rozmej: Probably undefined, right? There's no definition of error code.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, I mean, there's no… there's… this… I mean, that's… that's… this is now the interesting question, like, we are back now to this… to this,
Felix (Geth): to this question of should it return null or not? I think in this particular case, maybe not, because
Felix (Geth): Basically, the intention for you is not to access the block, it is to access the logs. And if you specify…
Felix (Geth): And also, you're specifying the block by the hash, so it's kind of like, the intention here is to say,
Felix (Geth): you want to filter logs contained in a specific block, so if that block isn't there, then the operation you wanted to do is impossible.
Felix (Geth): So, it maybe should… have an error.
Łukasz Rozmej: Yeah, exactly.
Łukasz Rozmej: Another thing, there is 44s, right? So, we need to specify that for four errors, also, I'm like.
Felix (Geth): That's true, that's true, that's true, that's true. So, yes, exactly. When the… this needs to… okay, this is a good point, but,
Felix (Geth): I think maybe we can… we can do it in this PR or not?
Felix (Geth): For me, it was…
Łukasz Rozmej: If we won't do it in this PR, we will forget about it.
Felix (Geth): Okay, interesting. Yeah, that's definitely one way to see it. Let's see, I don't know exactly…
Łukasz Rozmej: At least I will forget about it, and then I don't care that much about JSON RPC to keep that in my mind longer than 5 minutes.
Felix (Geth): Yeah.
Felix (Geth): I don't know, what's your GitHub name, by the way?
Łukasz Rozmej: Lucas Rosmi.
Łukasz Rozmej: Yeah. Like, my normal name without Polish paragraph.
Felix (Geth): Yeah.
Łukasz Rozmej: M.
Felix (Geth): One sec, guys, I need to pick up the phone.
Felix (Geth): Okay.
Felix (Geth): All right, so yeah, I'm back. So that's a… that's a good point. Can… can we still… I mean, I can take care of the error codes. Do you… if you guys agree, we can just merge this. I mean, this is… I checked it, and it appears to be implemented, in most, clients.
Łukasz Rozmej: Yeah, true.
Felix (Geth): Okay, cool. Sorry, I clicked on my own name. Yeah, okay, cool. So we will merge this, and then that's that.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, it's a bit weird that this has this, like, one-off definition, but I guess that's just how it is with OpenRPC. There's not really a better way to do this. So, yeah, I guess we have to…
Felix (Geth): I mean, it's gonna look okay, I guess, in the website. You have these two options, filter by range, or filter by block hash.
Felix (Geth): And then, yeah, I guess that's it. Cool! So that was the PR number one. Now, the next one is maybe a bit more complicated.
Felix (Geth): I feel like…
keri: You're gonna track that error implementation, or you want me to put up an issue?
Felix (Geth): I mean, I can do it right after the call, basically, I thought.
keri: Cool, thank you.
Felix (Geth): So, the next one is for the…
Felix (Geth): ETHConfig. So, technically, I think ETHConfig is… Final, right?
keri: Yeah, I think so.
Felix (Geth): No, it's last call. Okay. So, and the last call ends tomorrow. Okay. I didn't know that. But yeah, I mean, I don't think… expect that anything will be changed anymore in ETHConfig,
Felix (Geth): It seems that this is also adding test cases,
Felix (Geth): the thing about the test cases is we will have to redo them, so it's always the problem that when test cases get submitted like this, we have to later kind of turn them into, like, because we use the generator to create the test, we kind of have to backport them into the generator after this. But I think… I mean, this is a very well-specified thing, and…
Felix (Geth): I'm sure that since everyone is working now on the,
Felix (Geth): Fusaka fork, and this was included in the Fusaka fork and decided by all core devs, this is for sure implemented by everyone.
Felix (Geth): And, would be good to have the test for it.
Felix (Geth): So, I don't think we're gonna change anything about this PR.
Felix (Geth): Right?
Felix (Geth): I mean, this… this is just…
Felix (Geth): It's just a matter of merging it, I guess. So, yeah, I mean, if you guys have any kind of last-minute reservations about it, we can still change.
keri: No, I think this is a good one to get in.
Felix (Geth): Yeah.
Felix (Geth): So, and then, I guess with the tests, also, we need to see, I think there must be something there
Felix (Geth): Yeah, in the RPC test gen, I mean, we can check.
Felix (Geth): if there is a matching PR,
Felix (Geth): Nope, so we need to…
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Sorry, just one question, I saw the IO5 from… on this.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: So, if there is no test for it, so how come the .io files are generated?
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: But I'm lost.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: I… on the RFPC, yeah, here, daisy.io file.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Yeah, so how come the test… we have a .io file, but we don't have a test?
Felix (Geth): I mean, this is maybe something where also, like, because I recently reviewed your PR Mercy on the RPC test gen, so RPC Test Gen just…
Felix (Geth): RPC testing is not the test, it's just the test generator. So the I.O. files are the tests, and, they are created by this tool, but they don't have to be, necessarily. I mean, I guess the… that, what's his name again? I forgot. Dano just, created these tests somehow.
Felix (Geth): using his own tools, I guess using Bisu or whatever, he created them, and then… now it's kind of on us to make sure that as we keep regenerating the tests.
Felix (Geth): they will… always be up-to-date. So this is, like, the thing, the I.O. files, they contain
Felix (Geth): the I.O. files are tests, which are…
Felix (Geth): Which correspond to the current test chain, also, like, that's the thing, like, inside of the test folder, we have the test chain.
Felix (Geth): And this test chain, You can see it here.
Felix (Geth): there's this, like, chain.rlp, and then, like, the Genesis, and so on. So these files, they define, like, the blocks which exist in the test, and so on. And the ETH simula… the ETH config tests here, they somehow correspond to…
Felix (Geth): They somehow correspond to this test chain, but we have to backport
Felix (Geth): these tests into the generator. So basically, we have to update the generator to actually call ETHConfig.
Felix (Geth): And basically recreate these tests so that when we update the test chain the next time, these will not go out of date.
Felix (Geth): Or something, because then, you know, maybe the block hashes will change, or something about the config will change, or, you know, like, anything, like the fork ID, or like, all of these things will change over time. And in order to make sure that the test will remain up-to-date, we have to kind of make sure that…
Felix (Geth): these tests are created by the generator as well. But the pull request authors in execution APIs, they don't always know this, and I mean, I don't think they can always be expected to, update the generator with their tests, so usually what I would say is that we just kind of
Felix (Geth): add the test that they created, or something, and then we just have to backport it. Like, that's how I would… it's just how…
Felix (Geth): I would say it's the easiest.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: No, okay, so I was thinking we do the, we do our PC test first before…
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Putting it to the, execution repo.
Felix (Geth): Mmm.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: I was thinking it just has, like, a unified format, like, a step.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, it's true. I mean, we could totally do that, yeah. So, basically, here we would have to say…
Felix (Geth): Okay, so that's what you mean, yeah? That it has to be created first.
Felix (Geth): In that… in that case, I mean, someone, maybe you can actually do this? I mean, you have updated the RPC test gen before. So basically, what needs to happen is the… it has to be changed so that the RPC test gen calls
Felix (Geth): ETH config two times once, With no parameters, and ones with
Felix (Geth): Wait, also no parameters? Yeah, that doesn't work. No, that's weird. So, that's not… that's not… these tests will not work, because it calls the same method two times, and it has a different result. That's not how… I don't know, does it even take parameters?
Felix (Geth): Does it even take parameters?
Felix (Geth): Yeah, I guess it…
Felix (Geth): It doesn't, yeah. Okay. There are no parameters.
Felix (Geth): Okay, interesting. So, in that case, it means, basically, we can only keep one of these tests.
Felix (Geth): Yeah. So we will only have a single test for ETHConfig, which is the one that returns.
Felix (Geth): the current.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: Sidebar question here.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: Are both tasks important in terms of, like, syntactic correctness for returning results, depending on the state of the chain?
Felix (Geth): Yeah, I guess so. I mean, this… this is kind of the problem with ETHConfig in general, that it's kind of… it's one of the aspects of econfig that I personally don't like. It's that it… the result is dependent on the current block in the client.
Felix (Geth): So, if…
Felix (Geth): if the… I mean, it's like, if you schedule a fork in the client, and the client knows there will be an upcoming fork, it returns something else in ETHConfig.
Felix (Geth): compared to when the fork is over, and there's no currently defined fork. I think it's a pretty weird distinction. We cannot actually test it using our current setup, because there's no way for us to… I mean, I guess we could make a custom Hive test that launches the client with a fork scheduled in the future.
Felix (Geth): But that… setup doesn't exist for the RPC compatibility tests. We would have to basically
Felix (Geth): It would be like a specialized test.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: So, just out of another sidebar, and that takes 10 dev work, but, it seems like maybe there's… needs to be an additional parameter that specifies chain state, or some way of specifying the chain state.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: required for making each of the, RPC requests.
Felix (Geth): What'd you mean?
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: So, because you call eveconfig, right, but there's an expectation of different responses per chain state.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: So, it seems like the test needs to specify what the chain state is.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: Or what's chain state to, like, load for then, like, validating that the response is correct?
Felix (Geth): I mean, we have… we… yes, but we have that, so we have a single test chain which is defined.
Felix (Geth): And so that chain, we just use it for all the… for all the tests. So basically, the expectation is that before any of the tests can run, the client has to load the defined test chain, and then it's gonna be in that state. And I guess we could add a second set of tests that run against a different chain, or something like that?
Felix (Geth): But… yeah.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: Yeah, I guess I'm trying to see, like, how do you solve the git config with next fork and get current config issue, and then it seems like there's, like, a couple of ways you could do it. So one is, like, you could play forward the sequence of, like, RPC calls.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: To then put the chain in the state, the test chain in the state that then allows you to validate it.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, but we can't really do that, because we can't… I mean, we could, like, start talking to the client over the engine API to advance the chain somewhere else, but…
Felix (Geth): it's not really… I mean, the way the test chain works right now is that the,
Felix (Geth): So you can see it kind of in this… in the genesis.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: Right, it's just a static… it's a static state.
Felix (Geth): I mean, it is a… it is a… it has to load the chain, but then also the chain is kind of set so that when the client is finished importing, or has finished importing all the blocks in chain.rlp, it will have passed this prog fork. So the prog fork here, I think, is kind of the latest fork.
Felix (Geth): So… It will just… It will just go past all the forks, basically.
Felix (Geth): So we can't really schedule a future fork in the tests, because we… the tests are supposed to, like, when the test… at the end of the test chain, all the forks are passed.
Felix (Geth): All the ones that exist, I mean.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: Yeah, that makes sense.
Felix (Geth): I mean, we could kind of stop import, like, we could make another test chain that, like, stops before the…
Felix (Geth): Bef… before the…
Felix (Geth): before the proc fork or something, but then that's… that's, like, really weird. We only need it for one test, which is the ETHC config. So this kind of, like, ETH config's kind of hard to test in that way. It's even hard to test, like, in general, because most of the time, there's no next fork. The only time when ETHConfig returns, even something for the next fork.
Felix (Geth): Is, well, when… When the clients were just updated.
Felix (Geth): To, to, you know, support the fork.
Felix (Geth): I mean, I guess this is a valid… this could be interesting. We might just discuss this today in Discord, since the last call of ETHConfig is not yet passed, so we could just technically bring it up and be like, hey guys, why don't you just change ETHConfig to remove this next fork thing?
Felix (Geth): I don't know. Seems a bit wild, but I guess it's not too late, formally.
Felix (Geth): Anyways, yeah, Lukash, you were saying you need to go, so could we just finalize?
Felix (Geth): I mean, this PR, I think, in…
Felix (Geth): I would say we can kind of merge it, because it is… it implements the EIP.
Felix (Geth): At the same time, the EIP is in last call, it's not final, so maybe it's too early, and also we need to
Felix (Geth): make the generator. So maybe, Mercy, you can just add this call to the generator, that would be great, and then we can update this PR with the generated test, and there will only be one test for now.
Felix (Geth): Do you think that's a good resolution?
Felix (Geth): Okay, super cool. So let's go like that, and then we can have some progress. So basically, then it will be all good in terms of the process, and I can ping Dano to figure out
Felix (Geth): What to do about this next fork thing.
Felix (Geth): Okay.
Felix (Geth): And so now, let's maybe quickly go and see the final one. So the final thing that was tagged for triage is this
Felix (Geth): JSON RPC error code standardization. This is kind of a big thing, so…
Felix (Geth): I don't know how far we're gonna get. Definitely some things were changed after the last call where we discussed this.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, I can quickly update it, just, like, in 2 minutes,
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: In short, I addressed most of the comments, changed the ranges to positive, for the newly implemented ones, and most importantly, for execution alert errors, at least for the execution reverted, it now reflects 3.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: And rest of the transaction pool and, ZK executioner is a new category I added.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: And gas errors, I've reduced the number of gas errors to only reflect the…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: errors that we actually get, at least with GET and BASU. I cross-checked it with the test. I also created a new test suit. This is currently in my, profile. I'll slowly start working on moving it to Hive or RPC test run.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: But that has the updated report, so if you click on the last point in the ETH error test, in the, in the…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Just, in the description. It's in the description at the… at the bottom.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Oh, no, it's all the way top in the PR description.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: I shed the.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Okay.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Chat.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Oh yeah, thank you, yeah, that one.
Felix (Geth): the tests. Okay.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, yeah, if…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Exactly. So I created my own suit. It's based on the existing test I did long back, and I updated it to include all scenarios. So the reports now will have… I only did for Sepolia, Get, and Besu, but it's easy to append for the rest of the clients to add it. It's sort of like a…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: very similar to Hive, how it spins up local clients and runs scenarios, but just as my own structure, but I can't… I'll start working on expanding this for the rest of the clients, but…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: If you click on the reports and pick up any one of the reports CSV,
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: It's in the, folder, reports folder.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, you could click on Get if you want, yeah, CSV, yeah.
Felix (Geth): Hmm.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Nice, cool. You can see the raw transaction, and those are the errors I added in the gas errors, and…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: this will reflect the error code, and I've simulated this on actual… by deploying actual contract, and simulating this exactly how it would respond. But for some scenarios, it's not too perfect. I cannot replicate errors, such as non's too high.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: But that can be addressed, and there are a few hacks here to get it all printed out, but pretty much should work still, for most of the clients, and I've done this again for Beiso, too.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: So, I can expand this test, too, to cover more scenarios, but if you click on the test cases folder under the package.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: And, send transaction scenarios at the end. I haven't done the estimate cast, it's currently only on send transaction scenarios. So if you click on the send transaction scenarios file.
Felix (Geth): One second.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Sure.
Felix (Geth): I'm sorry, yeah, alright, yeah, what should I click on? Sorry.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: No worries, not all good. Send transaction scenarios.
Felix (Geth): Huh.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, that's the one. So this has all the tests that I did, basically, you know,
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: updating some of the params to simulate different kinds of errors, but this is up-to-date. I need to implement the same for ETHAS and call, ETHCALL, but ETH and transaction should be… should have all the latest values. I need to fix the code a bit, but…
Felix (Geth): And it seems kind of interesting to me, I mean, we should… there's a lot of overlap in this with both RPC Test Gen and with the Hive, so… Right, correct. I feel like you should just kind of convert this to run in the Hive, and then we would…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: I agree, completely agree. The only reason I didn't do that now is because I wanted to get this done quickly, and I had the setup ready in my local.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, yeah.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: So just sort of expanded on it, but it would take a little bit for me to move this to Hive and our PC testing, but it's all simulating, really, actual native errors.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, this is very good. I have a general feeling that might actually be useful now that we think… I think about it, to maybe just also run RPC TestGen inside of Hive. So this is something that we could do, because, at the moment, it's like, we own… we use… in RPC TestGen, we run Geth to generate the…
Felix (Geth): The test cases, because it's easiest for us to just, like, compile and run it in the same setup.
Felix (Geth): But that doesn't mean
Felix (Geth): it would actually be kind of interesting to fill the same test from another client, just to see the results. It doesn't necessarily mean we have to commit them or something, it's just more like, at the moment, it's literally not possible to do the filling. Like, I mean, yeah, it is.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Exactly.
Felix (Geth): manual stuff, but I guess… so, there is some overlap with that, too.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, no, I agree. This is, like, a single package where you can add a new client and run all the tests in one go. But definitely, the end goal is to move this to Hive and RPC Testion, once I have, like, nailed it down. The only reason I didn't do it is, again.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, but this code could basically be used as is to generate the test cases, right? Like, that's the main thing, yeah.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, exactly. No, I kept most of the stuff very similar, so we can… it'll be easy to import later, but yeah, this is what I have so far.
Felix (Geth): I mean, the question is also, like, I mean, this is more, like, this project is more about doing, like, some research in terms of, like, what the clients actually do right now, but obviously it's not, like, what they are doing right now is not necessarily what we want to put in the spec, right? We want to…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Correct, exactly.
Felix (Geth): This is more for, like, you know, having an overview of, like, where the clients are at.
Felix (Geth): And I guess now Wukash left, but, like, he is… was from Nethermind, so I guess it would have been quite interesting to… to hear it from him, because, like, I mean, Nethermind isn't here, but obviously they also have some…
Felix (Geth): They also have some.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, I can add another one quickly, it wouldn't take too long, just probably under a day.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Again, never mind quickly. Yeah, but yeah, this is just to showcase where the clients are, and even if you want to run after fixes, this would reflect the current state and the future state, but yeah.
Felix (Geth): Pretty much.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, very cool, very cool. So, can we maybe go back to the… so what we gonna do about the PR? I mean…
Felix (Geth): For now, I guess now it's…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: I think it should be really ready at this point, if you all take a look into the actual numbers and see if it matches and, sounds good. I think we can… we should be in a position to merge this. There may be, like, one final comment I have to do, some cleanup.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: just, some description on README, but other than that, the PR and this should be… should be in a good condition.
Felix (Geth): I have the general, comment. I think that the,
Felix (Geth): these two groups are not required to specify, because JSON RPC allows the server to return these errors anyways. I mean, it's just gonna be, like, if there's a server error, then yeah, it's gonna return this error. Do you think it's required to put this in for every single method to define that, you know, the standard errors can be returned?
Felix (Geth): Good reduction.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: It would be useful in the future test. If it doesn't match, it should at least warn us. Let's say someone is using completely outside the JSON standard errors or the errors we have defined.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: We should at least see the warrant message, or at least error it out, so… and of course, it's like a single place to look up all the errors that
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: currently is supported, and that's the only reason. Probably, I can do this even more slightly generic. I can take a look at that, but, yeah, it'll be useful for the test in the future.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, okay.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Actually, implementation, yeah.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, I… okay, so, I mean, this is definitely improved compared to last time. Let me put it like that.
Felix (Geth): But, and yeah, it has some… has some good things, but it has some… That's a…
Felix (Geth): I mean, mostly, yeah, it has the ZK errors now, these are new, and then some of the… some of them have to be reduced. I still think we should maybe, for example, one of the things that's a bit weird still is this message and data situation here, like.
Felix (Geth): that… I mean, I know last time we talked about it, but
Felix (Geth): like, the message here is… this is very confusing, I have to say, because this says message already known, but this is more like a…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right.
Felix (Geth): I don't understand, like, what's the distinction between these two fields. Like, there's the message, and then there's also the other message, which is more, like, readable.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right. So, yeah, I can also revert that back. I didn't… I didn't keep it to cause confusion. The more goal was for me to,
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: you know, push people to start using the data field more often. That could be a string, that could be an object, and also, this also gives us a way to standardize the message field a little bit more. If, you know, clients want to say out of counters or transaction
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Not permitted, some kind of error, that's not defined, or well-known, just like non-too-low.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Because non's too low, everyone knows it's pretty standard, and everyone has similar, string.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: For the rest of them, we can also kind of use this kind of underscore messages to standardize messages in the future, but absolutely not needed now. So, we are only focusing on code. If it's causing more confusion, I think we should… we can revert this and…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Move the description into the message field, and leave the data out of the standardization.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: But so that is just to point what can be used for this, error code, that's it.
Felix (Geth): Yeah.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: I would be on board with the, like, maybe moving the stuff that's in data into message.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, yeah.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: From the OpenRPC side.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: it's kind of, like, maybe an early days misstep, where, yeah, like Shane said in the comments, that it should be, like, the data field should really specify a schema.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: So, like, imagine that you're out of gas, we could define schemas that clients should return,
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: client with that. So it could be, like, oh, gas, field, plus number.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: That kind of thing.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: So the more that we can push into the message, then whenever OpenRPC does the version bump to support, like, the data schema.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: That could be… like, it's gonna be a seamless transition, then.
Felix (Geth): So here.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Awesome, yeah, that sounds good.
Felix (Geth): I'm showing this on the screen right now, but basically, we have, for the existing code 3, we have the data, which is defined to be the schema, so it's like a byte.
Felix (Geth): this… this is kind of the intention between… the intention of using the data field. So for this error.
Felix (Geth): of Code 3,
Felix (Geth): We don't expect the client to return this exact message. That's kind of the point of error codes, that they don't have to agree on the message.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right.
Felix (Geth): We will never check that, but we will check the code, and we do have to check the data as well, that, like, they return the correct thing in the data, and the tests will verify that also.
Felix (Geth): So, we can't…
Felix (Geth): if the… I know that, for example, Reh currently returns some other… like, they have it a bit like you have it in your proposal, where they have, like, some error message in the message, and then they have another error message in the data, but that's not really how it's supposed to be used.
Felix (Geth): So, yeah.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, no, yeah, that definitely makes sense. I can move the data field into message,
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: just want to make sure that people don't cross-use the messages, or cross-use the error code for different kind of errors, but absolutely, that makes sense. I can move the data into the message field and leave the data out of the proposal.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, I would say, because.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: And, like.
Felix (Geth): We will define… we will define, like, additional error data when it's necessary, just we haven't really had that… that happen so far. Like, for now, it hasn't really been the case that we need,
Felix (Geth): We need the error data, or something like that.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: That makes sense, like, Zane mentioned.
Felix (Geth): So, yeah.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, yeah. Like Zane mentioned, when they have implemented the schemas for…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: data, we can start using it. For now, I can move it. Yeah, I think, that makes sense.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: That should be a quick change, too. I can do this before tomorrow, and send it out on the channel. But if you have anything else also, happy to do it, so we can get this merged really quick.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, I mean, that, and then I guess we're kind of good. We have to review again, like, all of the defined error codes, if they really make sense, but for now.
Felix (Geth): it's… I think it's moving towards the… the good state, I would say, like, with this. Like, definitely we're… we're on it now, yeah.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Sounds good, thank you.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Sorry, I just wanted to add, if… in case you make the changes, we can then move it over to the ACDT call, so that they can… all other clients can actually, like.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Look more into that, and if they have any specifics, then that would be great.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: But let's say we are… we are bypassing the same zone here.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, that makes sense, Marci, for sure. I'll try to get this done quick, so maybe before next week, we can take you to ACD call.
Felix (Geth): Thank you.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: So, I guess that's the last thing on the agenda, so… Any last comment?
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Oh, okay, so before we close, I just wanted to say, I wanted to make out some changes on the documentation, on the website itself.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: But when I'll make up a PR, and then I will send the PR link so we can further discuss, because we already, like.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: We're over time now.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: That's all from my end. It was nice having you all, and
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: having these discussions. Thank you, everyone.
Felix (Geth): Thank you.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Thank you.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Bye.
Zane Starr | OpenRPC: Thanks. Thanks, everyone. Bye.